# ITIT-S3906456

COSC1078 – My profile (Report)

Personal Information:
Name: Anakin Bawden
Student Number: S3906456
Student Email: S3906456@student.rmit.edu.au
Picture: TBA
Background Information: I was born in the regional town of Ballarat in November 2002. Within my family I have a younger sister and brother who were also both born here. I attended primary and middle school at Ballarat and Clarendon College and then transitioned to St. Patrick's College in Ballarat for high school. I completed Year 12 last year in 2020 during a global pandemic and am now currently studying a Bachelor of Information Technology at RMIT in the city of Melbourne. English has been my lingua franca at home between my family and myself and I have never ventured out to speak another language. An interesting fact about myself is that I'm currently learning to fly. Dad has been a pilot in his spare time since I was born, and I was introduced to the world of aviation at a very young age and hence the passion has been adopted overtime. We currently own a light plane that we fly around Victoria and Australia and is well known for its striking color scheme. Other past times of mine include gaming, I’m an avid player in games such as Escape from Tarkov and Counter Strike. Sports I like to play include AFL and Basketball, and I also always love to catch up with mates and also go driving. (ADD MORE????????????)

Interest in I.T:
What is your interest in I.T? When did your interest in I.T start? Was there a particular event or person that sparked your interest? Outline your IT experience (if any).
Ever since a child, I have been exposed to I.T. Spanning from the very first device, the Leapfrog, to the gaming computer I built to experiment with I.T more, this field has been very prominent in my life. My interest is the ability to discover and adapt to new technology in an ever-changing environment. I find that if I'm given a textbook and told to read and learn a new way of doing something, it is more time consuming than my ability to grasp a technological device and understand its workings within hours. This way of learning sparks my interest for I.T and I also get such profound excitement at learning about new devices and forefronts in this field. I am also heavily interested in exploitation of I.T devices and the way we can amend problems in them to create a more secure world, not only for ourselves, but for the greater world and protect major assets that contribute to humanity's success. To address if there was a particular event or person that sparked my interest... no not particularly. It was more the accumulation of years of exposure and streamlining myself down a technological pathway throughout school that sparks my interest every day. In terms of IT experience, I work currently at The Good Guys in the IT section which allows me to develop my knowledge of this field, as well as building my own computer and participating in software development classes in Year 12. I also developed a website for our local flying school and managed social media and customer relations. 

Why did you choose to come to RMIT?
There was a plethora of reasons why I chose to come to RMIT. Firstly, they attain one of the best ranking for computer science and information technology courses in Australia and provide industry-leading education that would enable me to understand and streamline into a pathway in this field upon graduation a lot easier. Another reason is purely based on the location of the campus, since I live regional and have to catch public transportation into Melbourne every day, I wanted to minimize travel time and since RMIT attained an inner-city campus, allowed me to further strengthen my university choice. Also, I am highly interested in completing my master's degree in cybersecurity after I complete my bachelor's degree and RMIT offered this. They also had a lot of options to specialize within your course and choose classes that you're interested in.   (ADD RMIT STATISITCS)

What do you expect to learn during your studies?
I expect to learn a vast array of information and tools in relation to information technology ranging from basic-advanced coding through multiple languages such as python and html, web security and the handling of big data, the inner workings and query language of SQL and the way to develop a database and much more. I would like to specialize in cybersecurity within this bachelor's degree down the track and what I would learn from this would include secure data handling techniques, threat mitigation, penetration testing and the use of software for security analysis. Apart from academics, I expect to learn also a lot about myself and those around me, their backgrounds, their history and all of us as a collective can develop and possibly become close friends moving into the future.

Ideal Job:
https://www.seek.com.au/job/51829423?type=standout#searchRequestToken=0df04e60-8010-4c2f-9972-01b8ccf2d487
A description (in your own words) of the position, and particularly what makes this position appealing to you.
The position with Global Payments is as titled, a security analyst position located in Sydney and being a full-time position. What this means is that I would be maintaining technological security with Global Payments applications and reporting and analyzing any abnormal events within these systems. I would also be conducting security reports of their applications, developing solutions to present and future threats to assets (I.T threats), making sure the applications are following and maintaining compliance regulations and also developing security procedures. The aspect of threat mitigation and using tools to analyze and create more secure systems appeals to me as you are strengthening the security of the company and its assets which further strengthens the company's social reputation and popularity. Another appealing aspect is the pay rate associated with Security Analysts. Although this job has not posted the pay rate, the most common salary for this job is around the $110K mark. A high level of responsibility and power is also appealing in this job.

A description (in your own words) of the skills, qualifications and experience required for the position.
The security analyst role, having high levels of responsibility and power, has some strict requirements that all applicants must follow. For experience, the requirement is you have to be an experienced I.T professional that has worked in the commercial sector of I.T for a minimum of 5 years. This requirement would rule out a lot of younger applicants including myself straight away. There are no qualification requirements stated on the job advertisement but there are some key skills and attributes needed. Firstly, the experience in understanding secure infrastructure requirements, threat modeling, penetration testing and secure software development practices are required. The applicant also must have knowledge on an array of concepts including Web application firewall, endpoint security, Cloud CDN management and SIEM. The applicant also must have experience with threat management and audit response and exposure to security standards. Another skill required is the understanding of databases like MySQL and deployment and support of cloud-based API’s. Finally, the applicant must attain personal skills such as a high-level of efficient communication and a strong attention to detail.
ABSOULTE REQUIRMENTS: Full Australian working rights and an ability to attain a working with children's check.

A description (in your own words) of the skills, qualifications and experience you currently have.
In terms of my qualifications and experience, I have been able to develop quite a few through High school and my part time job. Working at the Good Guys in Ballarat, I have been able to increase my social skills including effective communication, build on my local area management skills and leadership, as well as also work to a fine and high level of detail. For skills, qualifications and experience in the I.T field, working at the Good Guys in the Tech area has provided me with a strong foundation for the further development of my I.T knowledge. I understand and compute well with the components and parts to a computer, basic operations and debugging as well as system diagnosis. High school also provided me with knowledge of database systems like MySQL, a strong understanding of algorithms and coding through Visual Basic as well as simple but effective front end web development and design. Official qualifications at this stage only include the completion of Year 12.

A plan describing how you will obtain the skills, qualifications and experience required for the position, building on those you have now. This need not be greatly detailed, (and will probably change significantly over time anyway) but try to be as specific as you can.
Referencing the previous paragraph, I do require a lot of experience to participate and apply for the job I am looking at and the way I will be able to achieve this is as follows. One of the first requirements the job states is a minimum of 5 years' experience in the industry. To achieve this, after university, on completion of my master's degree, I will try and get selected to work as a first-year junior cyber analyst through an agency such as Halcyon Knights. To be competitive in job selection and assist me with the requirements of the Cyber Security Analyst position, I will have to further my own development and knowledge of threat mitigation, penetration testing and my knowledge of several I.T applications such as SIEM. Completing my masters of Cyber Security will lead me on the right pathway to understanding these skills and developing them. Alongside study, I will also platform a lot of self-learning through interacting with these applications, using and developing my knowledge of MySQL and database software and general coding which is at the basis of most I.T professions and also possibly take and online course in threat auditing and management. I can also use a lot on penetration tools included in the Kali Linux software to penetration test and then further perform threat analysis and detection on generated attacks within Kali. In summary, the completion of my masters in cyber security, self-study at home by delving into more in depth database management, coding and threat analysis and mitigation and possibly the chance to work as a junior Cyber Analyst will allow me to be seated in the right position for the job with Global Payments.

Personal Profile
The results of an online Myer-Briggs Test?
The Myer-Briggs Personality test provided me with a personality of a Protagonist. The personality code for this was ENFJ-A/ENFJ-T. This personality type is commonly associated with and identifies you as a natural born leader that is full of passion and charisma. This type states that subjects have a lot of natural confidence and their main strengths are being charismatic, tolerant and reliable to name to a few. They are also very altruistic by being devoted to the needs and concerning themselves with the wellbeing of others. Their disadvantages are being that they are too selfless and overly idealistic, and when something is underwhelming and not as ‘grand’ as they hoped, they can feel pity. As this personality type is highly centered around helping people, career choices for these people revolve around supporting others and entities, creating a stronger and more fulfilling society. Workplace habits of protagonists include being hardworking and reliable, this can assist in gaining a job position as they stand out and possess qualities any employer would benefit from. To conclude, protagonists can overcome many obstacles and goals in life through their high drive and idealism traits but can be limited and ‘pushed down’ if their idealistic thoughts were too ambitious or unrealistic.

The results of an online learning style test? 
The online learning style tests I completed was the VARK questionnaire and the Education Planner test. Both resulted in learning styles of visual-mild visual meaning that I understand content and learn from pictures and graphs. Visual learnings including myself learn by sight and have strong memory retention, which is pivotal as we visualize what we are trying to learn or remember. In terms of specific scores related to these tests, the visual category attained a 40% mark, auditory at 30% and tactile at 30% which evidently shows I am a strong visual learner. Another point to add is that visual learners can be multi modal meaning that even though they preference and will mainly use visual learning, especially for big decisions and in-depth learning, they can switch their style if required in a certain scenario.

The results of one further online test of your choosing?
The further test that I undertook was called the DISC personality test which is based upon the DISC model that being an acronym standing for (D)ominance, (I)nfluence, (S)teadiness and (C)onsceintiousness. The test is primarily used for assistance in improving teamwork, communication and productivity in the workplace. The results of my testing showed a highly large sector- 50% to be exact- being in dominance which is the way I deal with problems and assert myself in situations. Next came Steadiness at 22% which relates to my temperament like patience and persistence. Finally, there was influence and compliance both at 11% and they relate to how I deal with people and communicate with others and how I organize an activity and responsibilities. To summarize the test stated that I am responsive to challenges in a practical, realistic and enthusiastic manner. It also stated that I’m a very fact orientated person who can provide assistance based on solid information. I am also assertive and individualistic.

What do the results of these tests mean for you?
These test results mean a range of different things, they show that I attain the ability through my personality to lead a group, that I care a lot about the wellbeing of others and that a job in a group setting or with client interaction would be fitting for my abilities. They provided me also with an insight into my disadvantages like being too idealistic and that I should not think too ‘grand’. The learning style was confirmed with myself by being visual as I suspected and memory retention and analytical representations of graphs and diagrams being at the forefront of my learning style. The tests also allowed me to understand how I approach tasks and challenges by being enthusiastic and realistic. Also being assertive and fact orientated assists in provide good group support that is accurate. In summary the tests mean to me that I can be situated in and individual or group scenario and work with accuracy and efficiency, I also can learn through multiple styles but when placed in an analytical position with diagrams instead of straight text I learn best. 

How do you think these results may influence your behavior in a team?
The results from the personality test assist me with understanding how I would work in a team. Since I have the personality of a protagonist, I would become intertwined in the workings and wellbeing of the other students, trying to maximize their well-being and productivity while keeping the group on track is key. I might have some problems with being too idealistic and thinking of a plan or idea for the group that is ‘over our heads’. The ability to be multimodal in learning styles will benefit the group as I can adapt to everyone’s needs and work together and learn. Finally, my ability to be enthusiastic and proficient in challenges at hand will inspire and allow the team to achieve their end goals in an efficient manner.

How should you take this into account when forming a team?
When forming a team, even though I can learn through multiple styles, finding other visual learners may allow us to relate to one another and transmit information to one another easier. I should also take into account that I need to form a team of people that also have the same drive as me to be enthusiastic towards the work at hand and also be fact orientated as well. Another factor that I have to take into account is that people may view me as too idealistic and this may frustrate some, so finding a group that understands each of their members differences and abilities would be perfect. In current society however, the selection and formation of a team like this may be very hard to come by, so the protagonist’s natural ability to inspire and lead others may assist in the struggles to form the ‘perfect’ team so pairing up with someone different may not be such a bad thing. These reasons should all be taken into account when forming a team.

Project:
Overview:
The project idea I have formulated and will discuss is a web-based aeronautical emergency tool. The application will source telemetry data from the user’s device, extrapolate it and then display it back to the user in the form of navigational and instrumentational graphs/diagrams etc. The use of this web-based application is targeted but not limited to pilots in emergency situations where loss of electrical power/vacuum suction within the aircraft’s cockpit causes the instruments built in to fail. In this event, users can open the application, allow it to run and gain access to backup instrument aids at their fingertips. The intended users of this application are pilots all around the world regardless of the aircraft type they fly and how much experience they have.  !!!COME BACK TO!!!!!!

Motivation:
Learning to fly myself, I have been presented with the dangers of stepping foot in the cockpit of an aircraft every time I go up into the sky. We are constantly assessing our surrounding while flying to locate safe landing areas in case of an emergency engine failure but yet we never assess what would happen if our instruments suddenly failed. A lot of us pilots who are not flying multi-million-dollar aircraft do not have access to backup instrumentation and thus this is one of the leading factors into the 220 aircraft accidents that occurred in 2019 within Australia. This alarming statistic provided me with sufficient motivation to take action and plan and application that solves this issue. Also, according to Statista.com, there was 666,565 active pilots in the United States in 2019. This shown me that there definitely is a market out there for this application and since there are no competitors, if people wanted a solution to instrumentation failure, my application would suffice. 

Description:
The web-based application I have designed to formulate will present users with an array of navigational and instrumentational aids to assist in flight if they require. The user will simply access the web, key in the address for the application and allow it to record live telemetry data from their device such as a phone. 
The features the application will possess are as follows. First, users will be able to navigate a map which will provide their exact location, and this is achieved through a GPS link established by the user’s device. The navigation of this map can be done by hand or query where users can search by aircraft-related fields such as nearest airport, nearest fuel station and so on. This will assist the user in performing navigational changes and implementations midflight in case of an emergency. The software built into the web application should select optimum glide angles in case of engine failure and direct routes to the users desired destination based on preselect information or custom aircraft data. 
The second feature users can access is the aircraft-data section. This area on the web application will provide users with live-time airspeed, elevation above mean sea level (MSL) and vertical speed indications in feet per minute (how fast the plane is climbing/descending).  Users can also expand and customize their default layout of this section to display instrument relevant to them in case of an emergency.
The user will finally have access to a customized section where they can create notes, store reminders and also perform fuel calculations in an instant with preset aircraft data available. There will also be an optional section which can be toggled which will enable the web-based application to automatically dial emergency services if no user input is detected within a defined time period which the user sets. 
In terms of the design of the web application, it will take a very minimalistic approach since the user will not want cluttered information thrown at them in an emergency situation. The color scheme chosen with take a very prominent and vibrant feel with key indications and data highlighted for ease of access and readability by the users. For accessibility, users can customize the color scheme and invert colors if required, also magnification and text size can be altered to accommodate the customers needs. The feature of text-to-speech can be implemented possibly in the scenario in which the user cannot spend time looking at their phone but wants to receive custom callouts of aircraft data they need. 
The application will also be responsive to all common device types so if the user is using a tablet or a phone, the application should self-scale and not prevent information from being displayed in an effective manner.
The combination of all these features should be able to achieve the single goal set out in the formulation of this web-based app, which is to maximize safety and efficiency in the air if an emergency ever did come about, and utilizing live telemetry data from the user’s device, we can provide them with their entire key instrumentational aids on the one screen.

Tools and Technologies: 
To be able to develop and run this web-based application, it will require a few tools. Firstly, to develop and upkeep the backend of the app, JavaScript will be used as the programming language due to its extensive abilities and fast compute speed where it is sometimes more than 10x faster than Ruby and Python. For the front-end development of this web app, HTML and CSS will be used and due to the app starting off basic and not having added features, a framework is not required to assist in the development of the app. Later down the track a possible framework could be Ulkit since it is known for its minimalist approach. Finally, the host the web application, a hosting provider such as A2 Hosting will be used as they have some of the fastest loading speeds which is required for our application. For the deployment of our web application to the host we can use the DevOps lifecycle tool GitLab. 
To be able to also run this web-based application, the user must have a device with built in sensors and a stable connection to achieve live data and access the web app. 

Skills Required:
The skills required for this project will be at an advanced level. The developer will first have to have experience in back-end and front-end web development through the use of JavaScript and CSS/HTML. The development of code that extracts live data from a user’s device must be developed and then translated into info graphs on the screen to the user will also be required and will need someone who is proficient at coding to develop. The structure of the web app will require knowledge of CSS Grid and Flexbox as well as API integration for maps (Google Maps API). The knowledge of contrasting color schemes and font-size for all people must also be contained within the developer’s skillset. Another skill is the deployment and upkeep of the app and the developer must be proficient with tools such as GitLab and analytical website management.  No special devices will be required to develop this project other than a computer to construct the application via a text editor such as VSCode and also a device for testing such a smart phone. 
In terms of feasibility to find the skills and software required, it should be fairly basic and straight forward. All programming languages and software can be found online and are accessible to everyone, and the hardware will not be a problem as most people can gain access to a smart device. Finding a developer or gaining knowledge of CSS/HTML and JavaScript should be straight forward as well since these are some of the most popular front and back-end languages around the world, so there is lots of instruction online about them and a lot of people proficient in their ways.

Outcome:
On completion of the project and if it is successful, it should result in a pathway for pilots to safely navigate out of an emergency situation revolving around instrumentation failure. The problem of not knowing what to do and having no live data to accurately fly the aircraft in these situations will disappear as everyone has access to live data feeds on their smart devices in such case. Hopefully the development of this project shows a reduction in aircraft emergencies and fatalities globally and we can create a more safe and secure environment in the cockpit not only for the pilots but for everyone in the aviation industry as a whole.




--------------------NOTE/ DIRECTORY PROBLEMS WITH FILES AND GITHUB PAGES SO I HAD TO TAKE ALL ITEMS OUTSIDE FOLDERS AND PLACE IN REPO-------------------------
